.TH diameterc 1 "erts 15.2.3" "Ericsson AB" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
diameterc \- Compile a diameter dictionary to Erlang source
.SH SYNOPSIS
diameterc [<options>] <file>

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The diameterc utility is used to compile a diameter dictionary file into Erlang source. The resulting source implements the interface diameter required to encode and decode the dictionary's messages and AVPs.

.PP
The module \fIdiameter_make\fR provides an alternate compilation interface.

.SH "USAGE"

.PP
Compile a single dictionary file to Erlang source. Valid options are as follows.

-i <dir>
.RS 2
Prepend the specified directory to the code path. Use to point at beam files compiled from inherited dictionaries, 
\fI@inherits\fR in a dictionary file creating a beam dependency, not an erl/hrl dependency.
.PP
Multiple \fI-i\fR options can be specified.


.RE

-o <dir>
.RS 2
Write generated source to the specified directory. Defaults to the current working directory.


.RE

-E
.RS 2
Suppress 
\fI.erl\fR file generation.

.RE

-H
.RS 2
Suppress 
\fI.hrl\fR file generation.

.RE

--name <name>
.RS 2
Name the output module.


.RE

--prefix <prefix>
.RS 2
Transform the input dictionary before compilation, setting 
\fI@name\fR or \fI@prefix\fR to the specified string.

.RE

--inherits <arg>
.RS 2
Transform the input dictionary before compilation, appending 
\fI@inherits\fR of the specified string.
.PP
Two forms of \fI--inherits\fR have special meaning:

.IP
.nf
--inherits -
--inherits Prev/Mod

.fi

.PP
The first has the effect of clearing any previous inherits, the second of replacing a previous inherits of \fIPrev\fR to one of \fIMod\fR. This allows the semantics of the input dictionary to be changed without modifying the file itself.

.PP
Multiple \fI--inherits\fR options can be specified.


.RE

.SH "EXIT STATUS"

.PP
Returns 0 on success, non-zero on failure.

.SH "SEE ALSO"

.PP
\fIdiameter_make\fR, diameter_dict(4)

