
guard_warnings.erl:100:45: Guard test not
         ('true') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:102:36: Guard test 
          X :: 'true' =:= 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:104:35: Guard test 
          X :: 'true' == 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:106:54: Guard test 
          X :: 'true' =/= 
          'true' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:12:1: Guard test 
          X :: 'true' =:= 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:14:1: Guard test 
          X :: 'false' =:= 
          'true' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:16:22: Guard test not
         (X :: 'true') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:18:22: Guard test and
         ('true',
          X :: none()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:20:22: Guard test not
         (X :: 'true') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:22:22: Guard test and
         ('true',
          X :: none()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:28:21: Guard test not(not
         (X :: 'false')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:30:23: Guard test not(or
         ('false',
          X :: none())) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:32:22: Guard test not(not
         (X :: 'false')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:34:23: Guard test not(or
         ('false',
          X :: none())) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:36:18: Guard test and
         ('true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:38:22: Guard test and
         ('false',
          any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:40:19: Guard test and
         (X :: 'true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:42:23: Guard test and
         ('false',
          X :: any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:44:19: Guard test and
         (X :: 'true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:46:23: Guard test and
         ('false',
          X :: any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:48:26: Guard test not(or
         ('true',
          any())) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:50:23: Guard test not(or
         ('false',
          'true')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:52:22: Guard test not(or
         ('true',
          X :: any())) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:54:19: Guard test not(or
         (X :: 'false',
          'true')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:56:22: Guard test not(or
         ('true',
          X :: any())) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:58:19: Guard test not(or
         (X :: 'false',
          'true')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:60:23: Guard test and
         ('false',
          any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:62:19: Guard test and
         ('true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:64:23: Guard test and
         ('false',
          X :: any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:66:19: Guard test and
         (X :: 'true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:68:23: Guard test and
         ('false',
          X :: any()) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:70:19: Guard test and
         (X :: 'true',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:72:21: Guard test and
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:74:22: Guard test and
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:76:25: Guard test not(and
         ('true',
          'true')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:78:22: Guard test and
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:80:25: Guard test not(and
         ('true',
          'true')) can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:82:21: Guard test or
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:84:22: Guard test or
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:86:26: Guard test or
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:88:22: Guard test or
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:90:26: Guard test or
         ('false',
          'false') can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:92:20: Guard test 
          'true' =:= 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:94:20: Guard test 
          'true' == 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:96:25: Guard test 
          'true' =:= 
          'false' can never succeed
guard_warnings.erl:98:25: Guard test not(
          'true' == 
          'true') can never succeed
